Introduction to Java

	What is Java?
		Common languages for most websites? 
		Operating system? 
		Object Oriented Programming? 
		Strongly typed? 
		A language? 
		Write Once Run Anywhere? 
		Compiled? 

		What is it and why do we use it? ? 
			Java is a compiled programming language. It is supported by Oracle and allows us
			to create robust enterprise level applications. 
			Java supports OOP - so we get all the benefits of OOP. 
			Compiled - which means that we have really nice debuggins situations. 
			WORA - Write Once Run Anywhere, anything that can host the JVM will allow us to 
				run Java code. 
			A large list of frameworks and rich documentation - is good!
			C-based : it is easier to pick up 
			Garbage Collection - automated memory management. 
			

		How does it work? 
			Pure magic. Also thanks to the JVM converting bytecode into 
			machine code.  

			JDK JRE JVM 
				JDK: Java Development Kit 
					Is what we will need to create Java code! The JDK contains 
					the JRE (and the JVM) and other tools such as the debugger and 
					the compiler! 
				(The compiler converts our human readable code to bytecode - which 
				is then translated by the JVM)

				JRE: Java Runtime Environment 
					Allows us to run Java code. It contains the JVM and core libraries.

				JVM: Java Virtual Machine 
					Translates Bytecode (machine-readable language) to machine code. 


		Create our first Hello World program!


	Primitives: 
		A simple data type like an int or a char.

		int - 32 bits
		char -  16 bits
		boolean - 1 bit (or a byte)
		byte - 8 bits 
		short - 16 bits
		double - 64 bits/byte 
		float - 32 bits/byte (less precise, but less memory)
		long - 64 bits


	Control Flow statments: 
	
		Control flow statements will affect the flow of how your code will be executed. 
		They allow you to repeat blocks of code or ignore it, depending on what logic 
		you've implemented. 

		if statement (can't use break statement)

			if([condition that will evaluate to a boolean]){

				code block if condition evaluates to true

			} else if([condition that will evaluate to a boolean]){

				prior if or else if conditions evaluate to false 
				code block else if condition evaluates to true

			} else {
				only trigger if no other conditions have been met 
			}


		while statement and do while statement

			while([condition that will evaluate to a boolean]){

				keeps executing as long as condition evalues to true. 

				A while loop is very similar to a for loop and is more general. 
				In fact, you can create a for loop using a while loop. 

				You can break out of a while loop using "break", which will end the loop at that exact point!
			}
	
			do while is basically the same as a while loop, but it will execute at least once, 
				even if the condition has not been met.

		switch statement

			Why can't it be double? 
				precision can't be guaranteed. some comparing 2 doubles is very difficult. 
				instead we can only use int, because they're much easier to compare. 
				Also true for char and String. 

			switch([Expression is either a String or a int]){

				case [An expression of the same datatype that it will compare the expression to. ]:
					This block of code will execute if expression matches. 

					break; This will escape the entire switch block. 

				case [An expression of the same datatype that it will compare the expression to. ]:
					This block of code will execute if expression matches. Also execute if previous 
					cases have been met. 

				default: 
					Will execute if none of the cases have been met or if one of the cases have been met. 
			}



		for statement	
			
			for([starting state]:[Ending state]:[incrementing state]){
				
				Code logic goes;

				}





		
