Server?
	A place everything is stored. 
	Software but also hardware. REsponds to a client. 	
	A hub where everything can takes place. 
	Hardware for backend application. 
	A machine or VM that is dedicated to fufling requests for 
		information. 

	A server is software designed to process requests and 
	deliver responses to another computer over the internet!


CLient?
	A client is a program that runs on a local machine, requesting 
	services from the server. 


Client Server Architecture 

2 tier architecture - The user interface stored at the client machine 
	and the database on the server.

3 tier architecture - there is a middleware between the user interface 
	and the database. The 3 tiers are named, the presentation layer
	service layer and data layer. 


HTTP protocol - Hyper Text Transfer protocol. 

	Allows communication between client and server machines. 
	(This is all relative)

	The communication pattern is a request, then a response. 

	(Communication between 2 devices)

	A client machine, sends a HTTP request

	Http request will contain: 
		url (endpoint) - defines the endpoint for where you're sending off your request. 
		method (verb) - tells the server what the nature of the request is. 
			GET : READ - retrieves information.
			POST : CREATE - create a resource. 
			PUT : UPDATE - update a resource. 
			DELETE : DELETE - remove information.  

		headers (meta data) - Also contains meta data! (e.g. what languages accept)
		body (actual data) - the actual content of the message. It's format is in 
					text/string ( JSON or XML)

		eXtensible Markup Language (slightly older version): 
			<fruit>
				<name>
					Apple
				</name>
			</fruit>
			

		JavaScript Object Notation:
			{	
				"type":"Fruit",
				"name":"Apple"
			}


	A server machine will process the request and then return a
	response: 
	
	Http response will contain: 
		status code - tells us if the operation is successful! 
				and provides information on what happened 

				100s - Informational responses
				200s - Success!!!
					200 - OK
					201 - created
					204 - no content
				300s - Redirection 
				400s - Client problem
					404 - resource not found
					401 - unauthorized

				500s - Server problem 
					500 - internal server error 

		head (meta data) - also contain the meta data
		body (actual data) - Also follow JSON/XML/HTML/ any standard formats!


